MDA Utilities Build Instructions
================================


Requirements:
-------------

MDA Utilities can be compiled using a C99-compatible compiler (such as
gcc), make, and ar (if the library is to be made).  C99 compatiblity
is needed only so far as <stdint.h>.  MDA Utilities have been
successfully compiled on Linux and Mac OS X, while it can also be
compiled on Windows (I use MinGW).

Only the standard C library is needed, assuming it included XDR
routines, which most do.  However, Windows does not come standard with
XDR routines.  Either an extra library has be used, or an included XDR
reading hack can be enabled (using the xdr_hack code). Either way, the
Makefile has to be modified to make this all work.

The program mdatree2ascii is a script, and needs the following
programs (other than mda2ascii): bash, find, and sed.  These programs
are very standard (other than on Windows), and should already be
installed on your system.



Compiling:
----------

If building from source code, except for Windows, all you need to do
is type "make" when in the source directory, and the executables and
library should be made.

With Windows, the Makefile has to be edited.  The line in the Windows
comment block has to be uncommented.  If using the included XDR
support, the first two lines of the XDR block as well as the
little-endian (LE) line have to be uncommented.  The names of the
resulting executables need to be renamed to inlude the .exe suffix as
well.  The GCC and AR definitions might have to be changed.



Installing:
-----------

To install the utilities in "/usr/local", simply run "make install".
If you want the files in a different directory, change the "prefix"
variable in the file Makefile, then run "make install".  Otherwise,
you can copy the files wherever you like.

If you used "make install" to install the files, then you can use "make
uninstall" to remove those files.
